[WIP] Benchmark gravity postprocessor with a prem density material model pluggin (#3850)
geodynamics/aspect: benchmarks/gravity_prem/doc/gravity_prem.tex

Gravity can also be measured at a set of desired locations in space. We have chosen 10 points at an altitude of 225 \si{km} corresponding to the 10 cities listed in Table~\ref{tab:cities}. If all points share the same altitude/radius, then one may only specify it once. It translates as follows in the prm file:

\begin{lstlisting}
subsection Postprocess
  set List of postprocessors = gravity calculation
  subsection Gravity calculation
    set Sampling scheme             = list of points 
    set List of radius              = 6596000
    set List of longitude           = 38.7578, 174.7633, -157.8583,   85.324, -77.0428,   2.3522, -21.9426, -122.4194, 139.6917,  16.3738
    set List of latitude            =  8.9806, -36.8485,   21.3069,  27.7172, -12.0464,  48.8566,  64.1466,   37.7749,  35.6895,  48.2082 
  end
end
\end{lstlisting}

> Results are shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:gravitycities}. Measurements agree well with the expected analytical value but the presence of under- and overshoot is the unavoidable consequence of the type of mesh used and quadrature order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Results are shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:gravitycities}. Measurements agree well with the expected analytical value. The remaining anomalies are the consequence of the mesh resolution and the quadrature order and disappear with higher resolution.
```

 6 & Reykjavik & 64.1466\si{\degree}N & 21.9426\si{\degree}W \\
 7 & San Francisco & 37.7749\si{\degree}N & 122.4194\si{\degree}W \\ 
 8 & Tokyo & 35.6895\si{\degree}N & 139.6917\si{\degree}E \\
 9 & Vienna &48.2082\si{\degree}N & 16.3738\si{\degree}E \\
\hline
\end{tabular}
\caption{List of the 10 implemented cities and their latitude/longitude coordinates.}
\label{tab:cities}
\end{table}

\begin{figure}[h!]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.48\linewidth]{../../benchmarks/gravity_prem/doc/profile_gravity_const_g.pdf}
\includegraphics[width=0.48\linewidth]{../../benchmarks/gravity_prem/doc/profile_gravity_const_U.pdf}
\caption{Gravity acceleration $|{\mathbf g}|$ and potential $U$ along a radial profile for a hollow sphere of constant density of 3000 \si{\kilogram\per\cubic\metre}. The grey area symbolises the hollow sphere interior where density is non zero. The analytical solution is also shown in black.}
\label{fig:gravityline}
\end{figure}

 \begin{figure}[h!]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.48\linewidth]{../../benchmarks/gravity_prem/doc/cities_gravity_const_g.pdf}
\includegraphics[width=0.48\linewidth]{../../benchmarks/gravity_prem/doc/cities_gravity_const_U.pdf}

> \caption{Gravity acceleration $|{\mathbf g}|$ and potential $U$ at GOCE height  (225 \si{km}) above 10 cities query points for a hollow sphere of constant density of 3000 \si{\kilogram\per\cubic\metre} counting 61440 elements. We varied the increased quadrature point degree from 2 to 4 to illustrate the rapid convergence of the gravity and potential toward the analytical solution shown in black.}

Reviewer: In this figure it looks like the optimal quadrature degree is nq+3 (I guess that means the degree of the finite element plus 3?). It is slightly surprising that nq+4 is worse, I would expect it to get better with increasing quadrature degree until at some point it does not make a difference. Can you check that the captions and the plotted lines are consistent?

Author: Well spotted! I missed that and for this case, there has been a swap between nq+3 and nq+4. That is because I ran the models individually and an error occurred. It is indeed expected at a specific height, increasing the quadrature degree results in a convergence. as shown in this figure: 

However, I was not initially surprised because I did see cases with other experiments that I am performing now, where the nq+4 is worse than nq+3. Those new experiments are ran in a shellscript using varied GMR from 0 to 4 and increase in nq+ from 0 to 7. Then the gnuplot is also from a loop. 
Here are a series of figures showing gravity acceleration difference between gravity measured and the gravity theoretic along a radial profile for a sphere with PREM densities. You can see that increasing nq+X does not predict a smooth convergence. 

![B2_profile_g_gmr_nq0_diff](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32137895/97480714-1712fe00-1954-11eb-80f4-eb5400032ee5.png)
![B2_profile_g_gmr_nq7_diff](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32137895/97480718-17ab9480-1954-11eb-9992-376dd73c63be.png)
![B2_profile_g_nq_gmr1_diff](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32137895/97480719-17ab9480-1954-11eb-8ec4-8a37bb956023.png)
![B2_profile_g_nq_gmr4_diff](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32137895/97480720-18442b00-1954-11eb-8e23-a5c2088601a9.png)

This input file generates a full sphere and assigns a density field based on the PREM values, as shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:gravitywholesphere}.

A new material model is provided for this benchmark in the {\sl prem.cc} file, which implements the radial density as obtained from original publication of the PREM model \cite{dzan81} and reproduced in Table~\ref{tab:premdensity}.

\begin{table}
\centering
\begin{tabular}{lll}
\hline
inner core & $0<r<1221.5$\si{km} & $\rho(x) =13.0885-8.8381 x^2$ \\
outer core & $1221.5<r<3480$\si{km} & $\rho(x)=12.5815-1.2638x-3.6426x^2-5.5281x^3$\\
Lower mantle &$3480<r<5701$\si{km} & $\rho(x)=7.9565-6.4761x+5.5283x^2-3.0807x^3$\\
transition zone 1 & $5701<r<5771$\si{km} & $\rho(r)=5.3197-1.4836x$\\
transition zone 2 & $5771<r<5971$\si{km} & $\rho(r)=11.2494-8.0298x$\\
transition zone 3 & $5971<r<6151$\si{km} & $\rho(r)=7.1089-3.8045x$\\
Low velocity zone &$6151<r<6291$\si{km} & $\rho(r)=2.6910+0.6924x$\\
LID  &$6291<r<6346.6$\si{km} & $\rho(r)=2.6910+0.6924x$\\
Lower Crust &$6346.6<r<6356$\si{km} & $\rho(r)=2.9$\\
Upper Crust &$6356<r<6368$\si{km} & $\rho(r)=2.6$\\
Ocean &$6368<r<6371$\si{km} & $\rho(r)=1.020$\\
\hline
\end{tabular}

> \caption{List of ten layers making the PREM model and their corresponding polynomial expression for the density as a function of $x=r/R_{Earth}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\caption{List of ten layers defining the PREM model and their corresponding polynomial expression for the density as a function of $x=r/R_{Earth}$.
```

Note that the returned densities should be multiplied by 1000 to obtain
units of \si{\kilogram\per\cubic\metre}.}
\label{tab:premdensity}
\end{table}

> As in the first benchmark, gravity is computed on a line and results are shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:gravityline2}. The PREM article also specifies the gravity inside the planet and we see that the results agree with the PREM profile. Also, we recover a value of 9.81 \si{\metre\per\square\second} at the surface of the Earth as expected. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As in the first benchmark, gravity is computed on a line and results are shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:gravityline2}. The PREM publication also specifies the gravity inside the planet and we show that the benchmark results agree with the published PREM profile. Also, we recover a value of 9.81 \si{\metre\per\square\second} at the surface of the Earth as expected. 
```

\begin{figure}[h!]
\centering
\includegraphics[scale=0.30]{../../benchmarks/gravity_prem/doc/default_shell_full.png}

> \caption{Whole sphere mesh filled using the default mesh generation method. The sphere counts 28672 elements and is filled with the PREM densities.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\caption{Full spherical mesh generated using the default mesh generation method. The sphere counts 28672 elements and its density is defined using the PREM densities.}
```
